
## RDF and Graph database comments 

#### _Paco Nathan_, AI Expert
>  "__the SPARQL and triple store crowd haven't gotten the memo yet about containers, orchestration, microservices, etc.__" 
> [Graph databases and RDF: It's a family affair: May 19, 2017](https://www.zdnet.com/article/graph-databases-and-rdf-its-a-family-affair/), [Has AI Arrived](https://www.bigdataspain.org/2016/program/thu-has-ai-arrived.html)


#### _Emil Eifrem_, Neo4j CEO
>"__RDF is basically a publication model for the web__. Some people have tried to turn that into a software data model, and that is something that I don't think makes sense. At the lower level, RDF is very expressive, but __it's also way too granular__.
>
>
> Consider this: you have a node representing a person, and you want to give that person a name. In RDF, you would have one Person node, and you'd have to add another node for the person's name, and a vertex 'hasName.'
>
>
>In Neo4j, we have a more compact model: you just add a property for the person's name, and that's it. That may not sound like a big deal, but it may actually make the difference as to whether a product takes off or not.
>
>
> Another difference has to do with the software engineering approach. __There is a pool of super smart people in the Semantic Web community, but their approach is typically extremely academic__. These are people whose main deliverable is an academic article, and that impacts the quality of the software.
>
>
> Sometimes it's ok, but frequently it's very hard to use. Take APIs: when we write our APIs, we obsess over them -- every call, every parameter name. __Broadly speaking, people who write RDF software obsess over wording, not APIs.__" 
>
>[Graph databases and RDF: It's a family affair: May 19, 2017](https://www.zdnet.com/article/graph-databases-and-rdf-its-a-family-affair/)

> "__Inheritance is an example of how things went wrong in the RDF community__. People thought, hey, I want to be able to model everything, and they added all these features, __resulting in OWL being so complicated that nobody can use it in practice__. That's why we are so hesitant about adding schema."
> [Graph databases and RDF: It's a family affair: May 19, 2017](https://www.zdnet.com/article/graph-databases-and-rdf-its-a-family-affair/)

#### _Vassil Momtchev_, GraphDB product owner at Ontotext,s
> "__Scalability is one of the first questions when people ask about the potential of RDF databases__. Most of our clients use graphs in the range of 500 million to 1 billion RDF facts, while the biggest cluster installations go up to 15 billion.
>
>
> In the real world, datasets are typically smaller. For example, all structured knowledge in Wikipedia is less than 800 million facts, and that is really a lot of data.
>
> [Graph databases and RDF: It's a family affair: May 19, 2017](https://www.zdnet.com/article/graph-databases-and-rdf-its-a-family-affair/)


> "It’s fair to say that triple stores were never meant to be used in operational and transactional use cases." [Jesús Barrasa, "RDF Triple Stores vs. Labeled Property Graphs: What’s the Difference?"](./references.html/#RDF Triple Stores vs. Labeled Property Graphs: What’s the Difference?)

#### _Manu Sporny_, One of Primary Creators of JSON-LD [JSON-LD and Why I Hate the Semantic Web](http://manu.sporny.org/2014/json-ld-origins-2/)
* "RDF is a shitty data model. It doesn’t have native support for lists. LISTS for fuck’s sake!" 
* "I personally wanted JSON-LD to be compatible with RDF, but that’s about it. You could convert JSON-LD to and from RDF and get something useful, but JSON-LD had a more sane data model where lists were a first-class construct, you had generalized graphs, and you could use JSON-LD using a simple library and standard JSON tooling. To put that in perspective, __to work with RDF you typically needed a quad store, a SPARQL engine, and some hefty libraries. Your standard web developer has no interest in that toolchain because it adds more complexity to the solution than is necessary.__" 
* "__Bad feature ideas can be argued for months and rationalized because smart people, lacking any sort of compelling real world data, are great at debating and rationalizing bad decisions.__" 
* "When you chair standards groups that kick out “Semantic Web” standards, __but even your company can’t stomach the technologies involved, something is wrong.__"
* "That’s not to say that __TURTLE, SPARQL, and Quad stores don’t have their place, but I always struggle to point to a typical startup that has decided to base their product line on that technology (versus ones that choose MongoDB and JSON on a regular basis).__"
* "The RDF data model is shitty, but because of the gauntlet thrown down by JSON-LD and a number of like-minded proponents in the RDF Working Group, the RDF Data Model was extended in a way that made it compatible with JSON-LD. As a result, __the gap between the RDF model and the JSON-LD model narrowed to the point that it became acceptable__ to more-or-less base JSON-LD off of the RDF model. "

#### [Ask HN: What happened to the semantic web?](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=16806657)
Hacker News, April 11, 2018
* "The __community has a tendency to try to build complete taxonomies rather than taxonomies that have long term usability. As a result they become stale__. For example, Friend of a Friend (FOAF) [1] is nice but it is very narrowly speced in some areas but not others. For example, there is a tag for AOL Instant Messenger ID but none for Facebook."
* "Most technologies that were specific to the "Semantic Web", such as OWL and SPARQL, failed to scale and failed to solve realistic problems, and therefore died. (__I always maintained that running a SPARQL endpoint amounted to running a DDoS on yourself__.)...However, we got something kind of cool out of the RDF model that underlies it, especially __when some sufficiently opinionated developers identified the bad parts of RDF and dumped them. We got JSON-LD [1], a way for making APIs describe themselves in a way that's compatible with RDF's data model.__ "; rspeer
* "Then you have the whole adversarial network aspect. __People will intentionally pollute the category system__ for purposes of advertising, propaganda, jokes, etc. Google bombing is basically a kind of semantic hijacking that happens already and we don't even have a semantic web."; api
* "The thing is __most programmers look at OWL, see the words class and property and immediately think that it's OOP__, that they don't have to look more into it and it has the same problems."; rspeer
* "There's also __no room in traditional Semantic Web ontologies to keep track of the provenance of why you believe something, and to disbelieve something that comes from an unreliable source__. Every triple is supposed to be a statement of fact that you can derive things from as if it is 100% true. You could use FOAF to say you're married to Tim Berners-Lee, and not even Sir Tim would have a way to say "no you're not"."; rspeer
* "Reification is at least part of the solution to provenance, but none of the Semantic Web ontologies you've ever heard of use reification, and there is no upgrade path to make an ontology based on plain un-reified triples use reification....To continue this example: you asserted, in English, "I am married to Tim Berners-Lee". In English, anyone can respond "No you're not".  __And there is no way to say 'no you're not' in RDF.__"; [rspeer](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=16811693)
* "Onthologies are hard. Curation is harder. People are lazy." [niftich](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=16807079)
* " the __OpenGraph tags are another example of widely-used semantic data on the web, maybe the most widely-used__, since all kinds of sites pull in page summaries, images, and other data from those tags. So while Facebook doesn't make social network data available, it did popularize a format for sharing other types of data (about companies, articles, websites, etc.)." [crazysmoove](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=16810013)
* "At our company we still use Semantic Web (or rather, RDF) for inference and annotation with medical ontologies (UMLS, Gene Ontology, Human Phenotype Ontology, etc). __The ease of use of triples + SPARQL (basically a PROLOG-ish unification scheme) is really powerful (and quite performant when using Jena/Fuseki with Lucene as a text index). But it's a far cry from the "dream" of semantic web like federated queries and OpenAnnotations (now just W3C Annotations). Still, every time someone implements an EAV scheme without even considering an RDF triple store I cringe a bit.__" [anon1253](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=16810973)
* "It was the sort of largely academic tops-down exercise to organizing information that has mostly lost out time and time again to more organic bottoms-up/self-organizing approaches. __Think Yahoo vs. Google__. [ADDED: i.e. manually populating hierarchies vs. search, in case that wasn't clear] I remember when it was going to be Web 3.0. Tim Berners-Lee gave a talk about it when he won the Draper prize.
As others have said, classification is difficult under the best of circumstances. And it just doesn't fit with the way the Internet has evolved. __We have Wikipedia, not the Encyclopedia Galactica.__... Hierarchical structures are how we organized things historically. So I think it's pretty natural. I know that for a long time I was relatively careful about filing email, files, etc. into a folder hierarchy and categorizing my music collection. I won't say folders (and tags/labels) don't still have their uses. But __I've definitely moved away from spending so much upfront time to carefully organizing stuff that I may want to find some tiny percentage of some day. Instead I mostly figure I can search for it if I need to.__" [ghaff April 11, 2018](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=16810381)
* "__The first users of the Internet saw themselves as librarians and curators__, and sought to impose that vision of the world on everyone else. For a long time, people had trouble with the idea that everything didn't need to link to everything else." [kristianc April 11, 2018](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=16811080)
* "As I was reading this comment it gave me another reason to love component based architecture... I would think __it would make sense just to allow users to self define stuff__ like that rather than try to do everything top down." [jefflombardjr April 11, 2018](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=16806657)
* "I spent 2 years using a semantic reasoner to develop an ontology for reasoning about smartgrid vulnerabilities. Ignoring the web aspect, ontologies are very hard. In addition, __one needs to use multiple languages like one to express the ontology, and another to express a query. Change the ontology a little bit and the query will break when you run it__. There was no integrated IDE that was complete." [grymoire1 April 11, 2018](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=16810847)

#### [Ask KN: Why isn't RDF more popular on HN?](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=7491925)
Hacker News; Mar 29, 2014
* "I personally stopped waiting for RDF to become relevant after years of fighting with __impenetrable, mutually incompatible specs__ (page A refers to draft B which has subsequently mutated or 404ed, etc. and although it's years later nobody has updated anything and all of the examples predate either), and __horrible tools__ — nothing release quality, examples don't validate, bugs unfixed for years in the issue trackers, etc...__It seems like the single most useful thing which could happen for adoption would be cleaning that up: a clear use case which isn't already well solved and a good tutorial__ outlining the benefits with non-trivial examples which follow the current standards, validate and introduce production quality tools...As an example: a lot of the RDF community hated schema.org when it was announced because it used HTML5 microdata instead. If you were a web developer, the case for microdata was easy: add a couple of simple HTML attributes, use one of multiple high-quality validators to test your markup, and Google/Bing/etc. would return better search results for your data. At the same time, it was daunting to write an RDFa equivalent because there were no complete, current, non-contradictory docs and examples, the W3C validator had been broken for over a year"
* "RDF is for databases what Turing machines are for computation: the minimal model that abstracts away as much as is possible without sacrificing capabilities but ignoring anything performance (memory usage, execution time) related."
* "In simple terms:1) __Tools suck__. Even today. Unmaintained tools from 2003 are still used as examples, which is a shame. 2) __Having multiple vocabularies__ is a good thing in principle, but __clashes with the "simple integration"__ selling speech. Have you tried to different data using different vocabs? (assuming they are using the vocabularies correctly, which is far from realistic in many cases). 3) On important selling point is the reasoning and inference part. Sadly it is not available by default in most tools I've used. In fact, there are really very few tools that deal with that and usually are a pain in the ass. 4) Despite all the academic hype regarding RDF-backed CMS, __there are very few frameworks that actually work__. Drupal 6 and 7 claim to use RDF but honestly, RDF doesn't add value at all...Just to make things clear, I've developed tools and being an advocate of Semantic Web for years, but I'm also a critic person. __We have to acknowledge that in academia, tools reach a buggy, prototype level that make them unusable in real world environments__. I know there are a few companies that do a great work building semantic web tools, but I'm afraid they are the exception to the rule." a1024, Mar 29, 2014
* "I'm not saying that namespaces aren't useful but simply that __the value of having a standard namespace mechanism in a triple is severely undercut by the complexity of RDF__ and the poor quality of the tools...Consider: I want to use data from two sources. Do I spend months not working on the hard part of the problem — reconciling the different data models — because I'm learning how to use RDF, configuring, fixing and tuning a bunch of niche tools or do I just pick one of many database options which have much higher performance, are well tested and highly durable, have great documentation and language support, and simply JOIN two tables (classic SQL) or add a namespace in a document (NoSQL or hybrids like Postgres)? Unless you're in one of the few semweb shops, you need to have a HUGE amount of disparate data for that not to be a grossly uneven trade-off, which should not be the case." acdha; Mar 29, 2014
* "Like most stuff coming from the w3c, they took a pretty good idea and made it needlessly complex with a terrible initial XML syntax and confusing specs. The first implementations were horribly slow for storage and querying. SQL people were laughing at this joke. __There is no reason why this entire concept and a simple implementation can't fit on the same sized sheet of paper as the brilliant JSON spec.__"; mcot2; Mar 29, 2014
* "__But HTML wasn't cumbersome. It wasn't (isn't) the most elegant format either, but it was simple and fun to use, people were excited and enthusiastic about it and published their pages. IMO, these early adopters were critical for making the critical mass that eventually led to the WWW explosion...If you make the parallel -- that critical mass has never happened with the Semantic Web / Linked Data. __How many Linked Data people are really eating their dog food and using RDF today?__ A way too little, and that's what matters."


#### [Entity–attribute–value model](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Entity%E2%80%93attribute%E2%80%93value_model)
wikipedia
* "Entity–attribute–value model __(EAV) is a data model to encode, in a space-efficient manner, entities where the number of attributes (properties, parameters) that can be used to describe them is potentially vast, but the number that will actually apply to a given entity is relatively modest__. Such entities correspond to the mathematical notion of a sparse matrix. EAV is also known as object–attribute–value model, vertical database model and open schema."

#### [Whatever happened to Semantic Web?](https://joelkuiper.eu/semantic-web)
Joel Kuiper, June 21, 2015
* "You can even define your entire database as RDF. Many tried, but many have failed. RDF is not suited for binary data (you can store base64 encoded strings, but that’s silly). __And anything that hinges on ordering is likely to be problematic, since RDF does not support any convenient way of storing lists.__...If you do want to enjoy the flexibility of logic programming over graphs, and make use of the vast amounts of knowledge present in existing ontologies, __people often opt for a dual database option. You define your data in a classic SQL store like PostgreSQL, and use URI’s as indexed keys__. Those URI’s can then be inserted in a triple store and reasoned about as semantic web."